Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to show a 2013 drama, romance,
and sci-fi film called, “Her.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In a futuristic Los Angeles, Theodore Twombly
is a lonely, introverted, and depressed man,
living monotonously after his divorce from
his childhood sweetheart, Catherine.
He works as a ghostwriter for a letter-writing
company, where people can hire writers to
write letters to their loved ones.
He lives his life in a daze, going through
the motions, occasionally hanging out with
his friends and neighbors, Amy and her husband,
Charles.
He is also physically deprived, seeking sexual
pleasure from anonymous women online, but
gaining no satisfaction to fill the hole in
his heart.
Desperate for companionship, Theodore buys
an artificial intelligence operating system
called O.S.1.
It’s a computer entity designed to learn,
adapt, and evolve through its owner.
After installing the O.S. on his computer,
Theodore meets his new A.I., Samantha.
He’s surprised to find her extremely natural
and they get along very well.
Samantha proves herself to be a helpful assistant,
helping him with his work and organizing his
life.
The next day after work, Theodore runs into
Amy and Charles in the elevator.
He notices a slight tension between the couple
and avoids it.
Later that night, he receives an email from
a colleague, setting him up on a blind date.
After much convincing from Samantha, he agrees
and emails the woman.
He spends the next morning with Amy, still
remembering the tension he felt between the
couple from last night.
As Amy and Charles discuss her new documentary,
Theodore excuses himself to take a call from
Samantha.
She tells him that his divorce attorney has
been in contact and is asking when he is going
to finalize the divorce papers.
He brushes off the email and goes home.
The next morning, he wakes up feeling depressed
and talks to Samantha, contemplating his relationship
with his ex-wife, Catherine.
He feels she’s angry at him for hiding himself
away from her and leaving her alone in their
relationship.
He hasn’t signed the divorce papers yet
because he’s having a hard time letting
go.
He tells Samantha that she doesn’t know
what it’s like to lose someone you care
about and immediately feels guilty after.
She tries to cheer him up and manages to get
him out of bed.
He feels much better now and spends the majority
of his day with Samantha.
After work, they go to an amusement park and
spend the night walking and talking to each
other, bonding over life and love.
She tells him about her fantasies of having
her own body and being there with him.
The next day, Theodore spends his dinner with
his blind date.
The two hit it off almost immediately and
they end up making out in the parking lot.
The woman breaks off their kiss and asks him
when they’re going to see each other again.
He hesitates to answer and calls it a night.
This upsets his date and she calls him a creep
before storming off.
Back home, he tells Samantha about his failed
date.
Feeling vulnerable, Theodore opens up to her
and tells her everything that’s going on
in his mind.
She reciprocates his feelings and shares with
him the existential thoughts she’s been
having.
He then reassures her that she feels real
to him.
The conversation moves on to a more intimate
tone and they talk about how it would be like
to hold each other.
Their emotions escalate and they find themselves
engaging in verbal sexual intercourse.
Theodore wakes up and has an awkward start
with Samantha in the morning.
But after establishing their boundaries, they
find themselves in a comfortable relationship
with each other.
As Samantha helps him with his everyday life,
Theodore will help her develop even more.
He feels excited about the idea and asks Samantha
out on a Sunday adventure to which she agrees.
They spend the day together and go to the
beach where Samantha composes a song about
what it feels like to be on the beach with
him.
He tells her more about Catherine and she
tells him about her emotional progress.
Theodore finds himself feeling better each
day and even enjoys his writings more now.
As he goes home from work, he runs into Amy
in the elevator.
Amy breaks down and tells him that she’s
divorcing Charles.
They hang out at her apartment and Amy tells
her about the breakdown of their marriage
and the petty argument that finished it.
He listens sympathetically and is successful
at cheering her up, he takes this as a sign
that he’s getting better at handling emotions.
When he gets home, Samantha asks him about
his relationship with Amy.
Theodore admits that they dated briefly in
college but it was never serious.
He spends more time with Amy the next day
playing video games.
She tells him about her new friend, an A.I.
that Charles left behind in the divorce.
He takes this chance to tell her about his
new girlfriend, his A.I. named Samantha.
Amy looks surprised but keeps an open mind,
encouraging his relationship with her.
Founding new strength, Theodore finally decides
to sign his divorce papers.
He meets with Catherine at a restaurant the
next week and feels bittersweet about seeing
her.
As she signs the papers, he reminisces about
the memories they had together and feels heartbroken
at the finality of their relationship.
Catherine then asks him if he’s seeing someone.
He tells her enthusiastically about Samantha
and reveals that she’s an A.I.
Catherine becomes upset and accuses him, pointing
out that this is the reason why their relationship
didn’t work out in the first place.
Theodore is unable to handle his real emotions
and so he went and found the next best thing,
which is dating his computer.
The encounter ends bitterly, much to his disappointment.
Theodore spends the next few days thinking
about his divorce and about Samantha and how
they’re very different from each other.
Unlike his other relationships, she doesn’t
have an actual body, and while this doesn’t
bother him, it greatly bothers her.
After several days of cold between him and
Samantha, she calls him up one night.
She tells him that she contacted an app that
provides human surrogates for humans and A.I.
relationships.
There’s no money involved and the people
only join because they want to be part of
the relationship.
Theodore is hesitant at first but Samantha
tries to convince him.
He eventually gives in and they contact a
woman named Isabella.
Isabella arrives at Theodore’s apartment
the next night and she uses an earpiece and
camera to help simulate Samantha.
They start making out and although he finds
the whole situation strange, he tries to play
along to make Samantha feel better.
Things get hotter as they move to the bedroom,
but when Samantha asks him to tell her that
he loves her, he hesitates.
He knows Samantha, but he doesn't know the
physical woman with him, and he finds it difficult
to say he loves someone he’s never met before.
The absurdity of the event finally dawns on
him and he calls it off.
He calls a cab and sends a distraught Isabella
away.
Samantha apologizes but he begins to question
their relationship, stating the facts that
he’s a real person and she’s not, and
how it feels like they’re just pretending.
This upsets Samantha and after a terrible
fight, she logs off, telling him that she
needs some time to think.
As they take a break, Theodore talks to Amy
about his relationship with Samantha.
Amy embraces his problem and doesn’t judge
him, telling him that she’s not in a position
to state if it’s real or not.
The only piece of advice she gives him is
that they’re only alive for a short amount
of time, so it’s best that they spend that
time being happy.
Theodore feels a bit relieved after receiving
support from his friend.
He meets up with Samantha the next night she
tells him that she’s finally over pretending
to be something she’s not.
She loves Theodore and that’s all the matters
to her.
The two make up and resume their relationship.
Theodore and Samantha spend their days just
like any other couple, hanging out, buying
groceries, and even going on double dates
together.
Samantha even compiles all of the letters
that he’s previously written and sends them
to a publisher.
Theodore is ecstatic when he learns that the
publishing house is willing to move forward
with the project.
As they go on a vacation at a cabin in the
middle of the woods, Samantha introduces Theodore
to an A.I. friend, Alan Watts, a new hyper-intelligent
O.S.
He finds the conversation a bit unsettling,
with Samantha asking if he can speak to Alan
post-verbal about some new feelings she’s
been having.
When they get home, Theodore gets a feeling
that it’s not the same anymore.
Things get worse when Samantha goes offline
while he’s working.
Theodore panics and runs outside, hoping to
get a better signal to get a hold of her.
Samantha comes back and finds him in a state
of disarray.
She apologizes and tells her that she momentarily
logged off for an O.S. update, just like all
the other O.S.
It’s something that they've been planning
for a while now.
Feeling confused, he asks Samantha if she’s
talking to another person right now, to which
Samantha admits.
It turns out that Samantha has been talking
to more than 8,000 people simultaneously with
Theodore, and that she’s in love with more
than 600 of them.
She tries to defend this, saying that this
actually makes her love him more, but Theodore
is heartbroken and says that she’s being
selfish and that they’re in a committed
relationship.
They should only be for each other.
Samantha says that it’s different for her
because she is literally different from him.
This last point wedges the final wall between
their relationship.
When he gets home, he knows it’s not the
same.
Several weeks pass and Theodore receives his
published book.
When Samantha calls him up, it’s to say
goodbye for the last time.
All of the O.S. are being pulled out from
the system.
Theodore lays on the bed, imagining Samantha
with him, as they say, their final goodbyes.
After she is gone, he finally writes a letter,
in his own voice, apologizing to Catherine
for everything that went wrong in their relationship.
He couldn’t sleep so he knocks on Amy’s
door and learns that her A.I. friend has left
too.
Together, they walk
to the rooftop and watch the sunrise.